The libGE library was developped for linux systems, but should work on most
Unix flavours. It comes bundled in a file called @file{libGE-xxx.tar.gz}, where
@file{xxx} is the latest version (currently @value{VERSION}). You should start
by unpackaging this file, using the following command:

@kbd{tar -xvzf libGE-@value{VERSION}.tar.gz}

This will create a directory called @file{libGE-@value{VERSION}}, containing
all the files required to build the library.
Within that directory, the file @file{INSTALL} contains generic installation
instructions for projects that use the standard GNU packaging of autoconf and
automake. In short, three steps are required:

@kbd{./configure}

@kbd{make}

@kbd{make install}

The @command{configure} script will try to guess certain hardware and software
components of your system, and configure the source code of libGE accordingly.
Run @command{./configure --help} for details on the options and arguments
available.  This will show you the standard options (common to all
@command{configure} scripts), as well as libGE options, such as the inclusion or
otherwise of support for specific search engines.

Running @command{make} will build the library, and @command{make install} will
install the library (typically on @file{/usr/local}, depending on your system).
You might need superuser permissions to install the library on a system-wide
directory; for a user-specific install, try @command{make install prefix=path},
where @kbd{path} is the path in which you which to install the library.

@subsection Examples

To configure and compile libGE using all the provided wrappers, and
installing in directory @file{/home/user/libGE}, the sequence of
commands to use should be:

@command{./configure}

@command{make}

@command{make install prefix=/home/user/libGE}

To configure libGE without the GE_ILLIGALSGA wrapper, on the standard
installation directory (usually @file{/usr/local}), and having the GALib
headers installed in @file{/home/user/galib246/ga} and the GALib
library in @file{/home/user/galib246/libga.a}, the commands to use should be:

@command{./configure --with-MITGALIBINCLUDES=/home/user/galib246/ga/ --with-MITGALIBLIBS=/home/user/galib246/libga.a --enable-GE_ILLIGALSGA=no}

@command{make}

@command{make install}

