@set MANDRAKEVERSION 10.2
@set GCCVERSION 3.4.3

@cindex Genotypic structure
@cindex Phenotypic structure
@cindex BNF grammar
libGE is a C++ library that implements the Grammatical Evolution mapping
process. This mapping process, associated with any kind of search algorithm,
translates a string of objects onto a program to be evaluated.

Typically, libGE is used by an evolutionary computation algorithm, providing
a mapping from a genotypic structure onto a phenotypic structure.
On its default implementation, it maps a string provided by a variable-length
genetic algorithm onto a syntactically-correct program, whose language is
specified by a BNF (Backus-Naur Form) context-free grammar.

The data structures provided with libGE are higly configurable, so then can
be easily used for different kinds of problems. A set of mappers is provided,
which can be extended to comply with different demands (e.g. different
grammar formats, different mapping processes, etc).

There are also several methods provided with libGE, to ease the integration of
the library with most available evolutionary computation packages. These
methods help to translate the data structures native to those packages into
the structures handled by the libGE classes.

@subsection Compatibility

libGE has been developed under GNU/Linux (Mandrake @value{MANDRAKEVERSION},
GCC v@value{GCCVERSION}). The GNU utils autoconf
(@uref{http://www.gnu.org/software/autoconf/}) and automake
(@uref{http://www.gnu.org/software/automake/}) have been used, to ensure a
high level of compatibility with other *nix flavours.

@subsection Documentation

The documentation provided with libGE was made with the GNU Texinfo software
(@uref{http://www.gnu.org/software/texinfo/}). To render it in PS or PDF
format, simply use @command{make ps} or @command{make pdf} after installing
libGE; the resulting documentation file will be in the @file{doc} directory.

Please mail any suggestions to Miguel Nicolau (@email{Miguel.Nicolau@@gmail.com}).

